Split Scheme Equality into own vernac + misc cleanup (#14740)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/proofs/writing-proofs/reasoning-inductives.rst

.. cmd:: Scheme {? @ident := } @scheme_kind {* with {? @ident := } @scheme_kind }

   .. insertprodn scheme_kind sort_family

> 

Reviewer: Keep this, otherwise doc_gram_rsts won't update the .. prodn ::

.. cmd:: Scheme {? @ident := } @scheme_kind {* with {? @ident := } @scheme_kind }

   .. prodn::
      
      scheme_kind ::= @scheme_type for @reference Sort @sort_family
      scheme_type ::= {| Induction | Minimality | Elimination | Case }
      sort_family ::= {| Prop | SProp | Set | Type |}

>    Generates (possibly mutual) :term:`induction principles <induction principle>`
>    for given types and sorts. Each :n:`@reference` is a different inductive type
>    identifier belonging to the same package of mutual inductive definitions. The
>    command generates the :n:`@ident`\s as mutually recursive definitions. Each
>    term :n:`@ident` proves a general principle of mutual induction for objects
>    in type :n:`@reference`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Generates :term:`induction principles <induction principle>`
   for the inductive type :n:`@ident` and :n:`@sort_family`. Each :n:`@reference` is a different inductive type
   identifier belonging to the same package of mutual inductive definitions. If
   multiple :n:`@ident`\s are given, the induction principles are be mutually
   recursive Each
   term :n:`@ident` proves a general principle of mutual induction for objects
   in type :n:`@reference`.
```

"term :n:`@ident` proves" - should be "provides"?

By "different", do you mean to generate only one induction principle for each (reference, sort).  How about adding a sentence stating that clearly?  But Coq permits that, e.g.

```
Parameter A B C D : Prop.
Inductive tree : Set :=
| node : A -> forest -> tree
with forest : Set :=
| leaf : B -> forest
| cons : tree -> forest -> forest.
Scheme tree_forest_rec := Induction for tree Sort Set
  with forest_tree_rec := Induction for forest Sort Set.
Scheme tree_forest_rec2 := Induction for tree Sort Set
  with forest_tree_rec2 := Induction for forest Sort Set.
```

Author: Right that is how it is intended to be used. I am worried if I don't mention "different" that people might attempt
```coq
Scheme foo := Induction for tree Sort Set
  with bar := Minimality for tree Sort Set.
```
Which isn't allowed but might confuse some users if they don't know that the inductive type has to be different.

Author: In this case `with` is only used (and allowed to be used) because tree and forsest are a mutual inductive type (whose syntax also includes "with" which is suggestive). It's not like we are doing multiple scheme commands together but rather one for a mutual inductive type.

Author: I've rewritten that paragraph. I was not the original author and the wording was too confusing.

.. cmd:: Scheme {? @ident := } @scheme_kind {* with {? @ident := } @scheme_kind }

   .. insertprodn scheme_kind sort_family scheme_type

   .. prodn::
      scheme_kind ::= @scheme_type for @reference Sort @sort_family
      scheme_type ::= Induction
      | Minimality
      | Elimination
      | Case
      sort_family ::= Prop
      | SProp
      | Set
      | Type

   Generates an :term:`induction principles <induction principle>` with given

>    :n:`scheme_type`\s and :n:`scheme_sort`\s for an inductive type. In the case

Reviewer: Better this way:

```
   Generates :term:`induction principles <induction principle>` with given
   :n:`@scheme_type`\s and :n:`@sort_family`\s for an inductive type. In the case
```

   .. insertprodn scheme_kind sort_family

   .. prodn::

>       scheme_kind ::= {| Induction | Minimality | Elimination | Case } for @reference Sort @sort_family

Reviewer: I think you need to run doc_gram_rsts again.  If you want to have `Induction` et al in-line like this, add this line to `common.edit_mlg` just above `] (* end SPLICE *)`: `| schema_type`.  If you want to keep it as a separate nonterminal in the doc, edit `orderedGrammar`  so that `schema_type` appears just after `scheme_kind`--in which case you can use it as the title in your table.  Nice table!

      sort_family ::= Set
      | Prop
      | SProp
      | Type

   Generates (possibly mutual) :term:`induction principles <induction principle>`

>    for given types and sorts. Each :n:`@reference` is a different inductive type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   for given types and sorts. Each :n:`@reference` is an inductive type
```

Seems obvious to me you wouldn't repeat the same reference

Author: I'm not sure. Because you can generate different inductive principles, people might confuse it and try to generate `Induction`, `Minimality` etc. for different sorts all with the same Scheme command. Of course it won't work, but the `with` part is strictly about the mutual inductive type. The fact that the bodies might be well known but I don't think it hurts to keep it like this.

>    Generates an :term:`induction principles <induction principle>` with given
>    :n:`scheme_type`\s and :n:`scheme_sort`\s for an inductive type. In the case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Generates :term:`induction principles <induction principle>` with given
   *scheme type* and :n:`@sort_family`\s for an inductive type. In the case
```

```suggestion
   *scheme type* and :n:`sort_family`\s for an inductive type. In the case
```

Reviewer: > How can I add scheme_type to the grammar(?)

That's not supported--the concept of the tool is to guarantee that the grammar of commands, tactics and insertprodn matches the source code.  You would have to not splice scheme_type.

   where the inductive definition is a mutual inductive definition, the
   :n:`with` clause is used to generate a mutually recursive inductive scheme
   for each clause of the mutual inductive type.

   :n:`@ident`
      The name of the scheme. If not provided, the name will be determined

>       automatically from the :n:`@scheme_type` and :n:`@sort_family`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      automatically from the scheme type and :n:`@sort_family`.
```

Fails because `scheme_type` is no longer a nonterminal in the grammar.

>       The name of the scheme. If not provided, the scheme name will be determined
>       automatically from the sorts involved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The name of the scheme. If not provided, the scheme name is chosen
      based on :n:@sort_family`.
```

Author: The name is actually determined from the scheme kind and the sort family. I will detail that.

Reviewer: An in-line example might be nice.

Author: I have mentioned that it depends on the `scheme_type` and `scheme_sort`. I have also detailed in a comment below why going into detail might not be worth it.

   The following :n:`@scheme_type`\s generate induction principles with
   given properties:

   =================== =========== ===========

>     :n:`@scheme_type`   Recursive   Dependent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    scheme type   Recursive   Dependent
```

    :n:`@scheme_kind`   Dependent   Recursive
   =================== =========== ===========
    :n:`Induction`         Yes         Yes
    :n:`Minimality`        No          Yes
    :n:`Elimination`       Yes         No

>     :n:`Case`              No          No

Reviewer: With two boolean columns, I'd usually expect the rightmost one to be Yes No Yes No.
I suggest either swaping the Dependent and Recursive columns or reordering the entries.  If you
reorder the entries, it would be a nice touch to use that order in the mlg file

Author: I think the order makes sense like this. I will swap the columns.

   =================== =========== ===========

>    See examples :ref:`here <scheme_example>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   See examples of the :n:`@scheme_kind`\s :ref:`here <scheme_example>`.
```

> .. cmd:: Scheme Equality for @reference

Reviewer: FWIW, it may be slightly confusing to have both "Scheme" and "Scheme Equality" appear in the index by default.  In particular, would you check the uses of ``` :cmd:`Scheme ``` and make sure they point to the right command?  I do see one usage with ``` :cmd:`Scheme` :n:`Equality …` ``` that should become ``` :cmd:`Scheme Equality` ```

Author: I believe that is the only usage.

> .. cmd:: Scheme Equality for @reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. cmd:: Scheme Equality for @reference
   :name: Scheme Equality
```

Will make the name in the index be "Scheme Equality" instead of "Scheme Equality for".  FWIW, "for" in the grammar doesn't add much except to make the syntax more consistent with "Scheme Induction"--where it also doesn't add much, either.

Author: If I change the "for" I will have to write (non-backwards compatible) overlays for all the uses of `Scheme Equality`. I think it is better to keep it like this. I will include "for" in the index however.

Reviewer: I think I'd put this below the 3 examples of `Scheme`.  Also the first two example should be indented like the third one (visually associating them with `Scheme`.

Author: Will remove the for tho

>    :ref:`See examples here <scheme_example>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   See examples :ref:`here <scheme_example>`.
```

Mostly we've used single-word labels for hyperlinks.

   Generates a Boolean equality and a proof of the decidability of the usual

>    equality. If :token:`reference` involves other inductive types, their
>    equality has to be defined first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   equality. If :token:`reference` refers to other inductive types, their
   equality must already be defined.
```

   .. insertprodn scheme_kind sort_family

   .. prodn::
      scheme_kind ::= {| Induction | Minimality | Elimination | Case } for @reference Sort @sort_family
      sort_family ::= Prop
      | SProp
      | Set
      | Type

>    A high-level tool for automatically generating

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Automatically generates
```

   (possibly mutual) :term:`induction principles <induction principle>`
   for given types and sorts.
   Each :n:`@reference` is a different inductive type identifier belonging to
   the same package of mutual inductive definitions.
   The command generates the :n:`@ident`\s as mutually recursive
   definitions. Each term :n:`@ident` proves a general principle of mutual
   induction for objects in type :n:`@reference`.

   :n:`@ident`
      The name of the scheme. If not provided, the scheme name will be determined
      automatically from the sorts involved.

>    :n:`Induction for @reference Sort @sort_family`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :n:`Induction`
```

I'd add another item that describes `@reference Sort @sort_family` rather than repeating 4 times.
Given that the descriptions for what remains is very short "dependent possibly recursive", "non-dependent possibly recursive", ..., they could formatted with bullet points (one line each, no extra space)

Reviewer: How about hyperlinking to your example at line 1084 here?  The visible text could be just "See examples **here**".

      Defines a dependent elimination principle into a `@sort_family`.
      This can be structurally recursive.

   :n:`Minimality for @reference Sort @sort_family`
      Defines a non-dependent elimination principle into a `@sort_family`.
      This can be structurally recursive.

   :n:`Elimination for @reference Sort @sort_family`
      Defines a dependent elimination principle into a `@sort_family`.
      This is not recursive.

   :n:`Case for @reference Sort @sort_family`
      Defines a non-dependent elimination principle into a `@sort_family`.
      This is not recursive.

.. cmd:: Scheme Equality for @reference

>    A high-level tool that tries to generate a Boolean equality and a proof

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Generates a Boolean equality and a proof
```

  induction for objects in type :n:`@reference`.

  :n:`@ident`
    The name of the scheme. If not provided, the scheme name will be determined
    automatically from the sorts involved.

>   :n:`Induction fo @reference Sort @sort_family`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :n:`Induction for @reference Sort @sort_family`
```

    Defines a dependent elimination principle for a family of `@sort_family`s.

  :n:`Minimality for @reference Sort @sort_family`

>     Defines a non-dependent elimination principle for a constant family of `@sort_family`.

Reviewer: What is a "constant family"??

Author: I've removed this wording.

  :n:`Elimination for @reference Sort @sort_family`

>     Defines a dependent case-analysis for a family of `@sort_family`s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Defines a dependent case analysis for a family of `@sort_family`s.
```

Why "case analysis" and not "induction principle" or "elimination principle"?  Is it a distinct concept or just a wording variation?

Author: Same concept, I've cleared up the wording now.

  :n:`Case for @reference Sort @sort_family`

>     Defines a non-dependent case-analysis for a constant family of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Defines a non-dependent case analysis for a constant family of
```

Author: Removed.

    `@sort_family`.

.. cmd:: Scheme Equality for @reference

>    A high-level tool for which tries to generate a Boolean equality and a proof
>    of the decidability of the usual equality. If :token:`reference` involves
>    other inductive types, their equality has to be defined first.

Reviewer: The first part should be more consistent with the existing wording for Scheme so users don't have to guess whether different language means different functionality (e.g. "A high-level tool for automatically generating (possibly mutual) induction principles for given types and sorts.v"). -- if accurate

```suggestion
   A high-level tool that tries to generate a Boolean equality and a proof
   of the decidability of the usual equality. If :token:`reference` involves
   other inductive types, their equality has to be defined first.
```

"involves" is vague, do you mean "contains"?

  The type of `even_odd` shares the same premises but the conclusion is
  `forall n : nat, even n -> P0 n`.

.. _scheme_example:

>    .. example:: Example of different `Scheme` commands

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. example:: `Scheme` commands with various :n:`@scheme_kind`\s
```

  The type of `even_odd` shares the same premises but the conclusion is
  `forall n : nat, even n -> P0 n`.

.. _scheme_example:

   .. example:: `Scheme` commands with various :n:`@scheme_type`\s

      Let us demonstrate the difference between the Scheme commands.

>       .. coqtop:: in

Reviewer: If you don't include "all" or "out" here, there won't be any output--making the "Abouts" pointless.

  The type of `even_odd` shares the same premises but the conclusion is
  `forall n : nat, even n -> P0 n`.

.. example:: Example of different `Scheme` commands

   Let us demonstrate the difference between the Scheme commands.

   .. coqtop:: in

      Unset Elimination Schemes.

      Inductive Nat :=
      | z : Nat
      | s : Nat -> Nat.

      Scheme Induction for Nat Sort Set.

      About Nat_rec.

      (*
      Nat_rec :
      forall P : Nat -> Set,
      P z ->
      (forall n : Nat, P n -> P (s n)) -> forall n : Nat, P n

>       *)

Reviewer: I think you'll see these comments appear in the output and thus should go away.  Might be nice to add comments like `(* recursive, non-dependent *)` on each of the 4 to be really clear.

>       Scheme Minimality for Nat Sort Set.

Reviewer: Need an `About` here and for the next 2?

   .. insertprodn scheme_kind sort_family

   .. prodn::

>       scheme_kind ::= {| Induction | Minimality | Elimination | Case } for @reference Sort @sort_family

Reviewer: Some things to do in the doc:

Now you should add a separate `.. cmd::` for "Scheme Equality".  The simplest option is just to put them together, e.g.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1253341/128279605-2ff0c6c6-9953-4e85-b680-2d4da1b968a2.png)

Second choice is to create a separate, rather short command entry that could refer back to "Scheme".  The current description for "Scheme" is a bit thin--there's no description or example of Elimination or Case.  If you can easily improve it, feel free to do so.  But it doesn't have to be in this PR.

Author: I'll take this as an opportunity to improve the documentation further.
